THE ROADMAP BLUEPRINT YOUR VISION SWERVE IN YOUR GIFT BOOK 2 ZION SWRV BIRDSONG CONTENTS Introduction - The Pep Talk ............................................................................... v Preface - Where Y’Goin? ..................................................................................... ix Who is this guy? ...................................................................................................... 1 1. The Driver’s Seat .............................................................................................. 11 2. The Road Ahead .............................................................................................. 15 3. The Test Track .................................................................................................. 21 4. Navigating Traffic ........................................................................................... 27 5. Look For The Fastlane ................................................................................... 31 6. A Man’s Passenger .......................................................................................... 39 7. A Life-long Roadie ......................................................................................... 43 8. Road-tested & Approved .............................................................................. 55 9. You Paid The Toll ............................................................................................ 65 10. Swerve On! ........................................................................................................ 77 11. For The Believers ........................................................................................... 85 Bibliography .......................................................................................................... 89 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSINTRODUCTION - THE PEP TALK “Why did the blind man fall into the well?”……” Because he couldn't see that well!” “But on the ‘bright side’, he finally got to experience life from a whole new depth!” Ba-dum-tss! Vision is important. You might find me conjuring up a random joke or two because this content might get a little heavy on the brain. If you’re reading this, you need to know first and foremost, you are loved, unique, and an individual. There’s nothing small or minor about you. You are valuable, beautifully made, and extremely rare. You are one of a kind and a big deal. You are the only one who has your unique life experiences, talents, skills, interests and passions, physical appearance, dreams, and aspirations. You have a fingerprint that only you have which means only you can make the mark on this planet that you can make. This means you serve a purpose. Please read that three times and get it in your spirit. You should be waking up on purpose; waking up enthusiastic and excited, because you already know where you’re going. Upon rising, you should be aware that you are continuing a specific life and not just merely existing in it. When you open your eyes you should be upbeat to the thought of adding to your life’s project. You should have a strong sense of worth that you should know how you matter to this world. You v (CONTENTS) CONTENTSINTRODUCTION - THE PEP TALK should know what part you play. Everywhere you go you should be “happening”. Did you know that was possible? If you want to be happening, keep reading. If anything I just mentioned activated a disagreement in your spirit, this book is for you. Vision makes the aforementioned possible plus so much more. This book isn’t designed to be a Bible lesson, but there is a key scripture I want to focus on that is loaded with revelation (revelation -to reveal, uncover, or unveil the truth). Proverbs 29:18 says, “Where there is no vision, the people perish.” The word "perish" translates from the Hebrew word "para," which means "to cast off restraint" or "to become ungovernable." Essentially, it implies that without a guiding vision or divine revelation, people lose their sense of direction and self-discipline, leading to chaos and downfall. I like the HCSB translation that says, “Without revelation, people run wild, but one who follows divine instruction will be happy.” To bring it home, this verse stresses the importance of vision or guidance for maintaining order and well-being. Let’s reverse the saying, “People who are genuinely happy, disciplined, and living well are governed by a vision that has been revealed to them.” By the way, when you look at an original text, learn about its background, and then use that knowledge to find a practical meaning, you are doing both exegesis and hermeneutics. I found this to be the best way to study, so much so that the information is an ever-flowing living well, and this book is merely a scoop of the overflow. You know, everyone’s looking for purpose in life. There’s going to come a time when you’re going to start wondering why you’re here with a time cap of 120 years. Why do you possess the gifts you possess? You’re gonna look around and see others being great at something and somewhere along the line you’re going to think what is it all for? Am I vi (CONTENTS) CONTENTSINTRODUCTION - THE PEP TALK supposed to be doing what those people online or on TV are doing? I come across people all the time who are curious about purpose and making the most of their lives. It’s a very sensitive subject, so I decided to take the approach of a bestie who’s in your corner and wants to see you succeed. I truly believe I can serve as a compass to point you in the right direction, out of the great unknown and into your lane. Do you agree with the Pep Talk? Why orwhy not? (text) AWelcome to The Roadmap where everything you think matters. Whatever questions you get from me, feel free to jot down your answers because we’ll use the info later. Keep reading to see if the information can add to or change your perspective for the better. vii (CONTENTS) CONTENTS(CONTENTS) CONTENTSPREFACE - WHERE Y’GOIN? So you’re out and about, and then you hear a toddler tell her mommy, “I wanna go to be an astronaut in space!” Of course, we smile because that kid has no idea what she just said. We adults know it’s a journey that demands more than just a cute face and a sweet voice. It’s about developing the character and discipline necessary to reach the stars. Some parents may even immediately be lightheaded from the overwhelming feeling of soon-to-be-incurred costs of providing the education needed to fulfill their child’s cosmic dreams. Although the child mentioned space, the conversation extends far beyond that because we inherently understand the power of vision. We can envision the process of self-improvement and the transformation into someone capable of embarking on such a remarkable journey. When that baby said she wanted to be an astronaut, she actually said, “I want the character to pursue my vision of being an astronaut.” It’s about surrounding yourself with the knowledge and wisdom required for such a feat. It demands the parents to research the requirements that need to be implemented in the raising of their daughter. Mom and Dad will have to be honest about her physical capabilities, dietary habits, ability to listen, respect for authority, composure under ix (CONTENTS) CONTENTSPREFACE - WHERE Y’GOIN? pressure, and choose a compatible way of life. Babygirl will have to be trained to be teachable, and respectful to authority to function within a team. It would be helpful to expose her to effective communication and paying attention to detail, knowing all of that matters to being an astronaut. Ultimately, it’s about cultivating a strong vision that shapes the character and environment needed to make dreams come true. The heart of what I'm saying is not to rob a child of the flowery version of their dream. On the contrary, it excites me when people have a dream, and I am determined to help them take the first step: write the vision. If the process of turning a vision into reality were a 10-step journey, step one is often the most skipped. Studies show that 70% of people don’t have a clear vision for their lives. That’s like trying to play darts blindfolded, giving yourself only a 1 in 10 chance of succeeding. Conversely, 40% of people who write down their goals achieve them, compared to just 4% of those who don’t write anything down. As a mentor of music production and martial arts, I have mentees who rely on my support and honesty. Studies show that people who receive truthful constructive opinions have a much higher probability of success—about 70% versus 10% for those surrounded by yes-men. It’s like trying to drive a car with no brakes: it might be thrilling for a moment, but it’s ultimately dangerous and you’re gonna crash! I want to help navigate through this and introduce you to the power of vision. I’ll do my best to be clear and explanatory, knowing that this is a lot to digest. x (CONTENTS) CONTENTSPREFACE - WHERE Y’GOIN? Have you ever had a childhood dream? Whatwas it? (text) B(text) Cxi (CONTENTS) CONTENTS(CONTENTS) CONTENTSWHO IS THIS GUY? WWho am I? I’ll answer that, but first, another amazing joke selection from yours truly. “What do you call a fish with no eyes?”……………… “Fsh!” Lol. Ba-dum-tss! Okay. I’ll set the stage by sharing my story as it relates to vision. My family of six was falling apart: Mom and Dad were heading toward a divorce, and our relationship wasn’t the best during my teenage years. We had to choose between paying the bills or paying the rent. Miss the rent, and they’d throw our stuff out on the curb for anyone to steal. We paid the rent but faced tough times with no electricity or water, so we had to brush our teeth and spit in the bushes. It was pure survival mode: when the water company cut us off, I learned how to turn it back on and figured out how to boil it just to wash up before school. We had to get inventive. I used cardboard in my shoes to patch up the holes in the bottom. We used super glue to fix the holes in our clothes or turned them into a fashion statement. We even created wild, inventive ramen recipes to mimic the real dishes from those Asian movies we loved. We were surrounded by beautiful, multicultural urban families who made something out of nothing. We rocked oversized clothes so they never felt too small. Dance classes? We taught ourselves to breakdance. Moved too often for a basketball team? We played And1 (look it 1 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG up). No money for haircuts? We braided our hair. Couldn’t sing? We rapped. If we couldn’t buy music or instruments, we bebopped. Some of us had “survival teeth,” so we blinged them out with gold, wearing gold chains to mock the ropes they used to lynch us. It’s a stark reminder of our history, still relevant today. Before camera phones, there was a lot of lynching in the South. We stayed in our hoods and made the most of our communities. I always tell people I’m not particularly talented; I just don’t make excuses. When you’re constantly using your imagination to create something out of nothing, you’re exercising your vision. Picture having a dream so vivid it shifts your focus from a setback to seeing a setup. Amidst all the negativity, I found a calling in making music, even as everything else crumbled around me. The creaks and sounds, rats and roaches, eerie noises from the woods at night, water drips, and the hum of traffic—all of it became part of my soundtrack. I don’t glorify the struggle, but the joy of dreaming and clinging to a vision makes me appreciate those times when we had to start from the bottom—or as we Americans say, "get it out of the mud." That spirit, that soul of a trendsetter, is what vision latched onto. Every setup is unique, even though they might seem similar. Vision is not intimidated by your setup. Vision visits every one to give their life meaning. Vision is like a small apple seed that grows into an apple tree, which then spreads into a forest. When vision visits you, it will fine-tune you to ensure you operate at your best. I call it getting a “tune-up.” Want to know where most of my insights about vision come from? Making 2 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP songs. Every time I set out to write a song, it begins with a melody in my head. I can remember hearing songs in my mind as early as age six. Over time, I began hearing songs in my dreams, complete with vivid scenes, like a soundtrack. When I wake up, I’m left with a powerful emotion from the dream. I don’t even have time to go to the restroom; I have to rush to get my phone—bad breath and all—and record the idea before it fades away. Then I can start my day. If I hear a song in the evening, I can't rest until I record it somewhere, even if it’s just in the camera app. If my phone is charging, I'll use someone else's phone and have them text it to me later. It’s part of my tuning. Vision used one song to enter into my dreams and connect me to a life driven by passion. Initially, I only wanted to record one song, but I was inspired to expand my knowledge base to record a catalog. The vision was fine-tuning me to think ahead. When you have a vision, your heart knows there are steps to take, but you have to write them down so your mind can keep up It’s similar to having a suitcase that looks small but, when unpacked, contains way more than it seems. Let’s unpack: I heard a melody in a dream. I needed to learn how to record that melody. I decided to go a step further and learn how to produce music so I could always have a beat. I didn’t have a full-fledged studio, so I had to research the best way to set up a home studio. In 1999, I discovered that I could have a studio on a computer. So the next step was… 3 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG GET A COMPUTER I couldn’t afford the PCs from the store, so I decided to look for alternatives. It turned out that my father had connections with tech-savvyf friends who knew how to build computers. I watched them closely tof reach my goal of building a super music computer. I didn’t even knowfwhat all the parts were called, but I learned how to identify what wasfneeded to assemble everything. Before long, I was able to buildfcomputers. I didn’t think much of it at the time; this stage was just afmeans to an end. Although I wasn’t initially interested in buildingfcomputers, remember this: Your vision will give you the passion to getfthe job done. I woke up refreshed and driven, pushing myself beyondfmy comfort zone and limitations to record a song by any means neces-sary. I acquired new skills to build a computer tower by gathering scrapf monitors, keyboards, motherboards, memory chips, hard drives, andfwhatever else I could find. Now that I had the computer, what else did Ifneed? THE PROPERfGEAR Looking back, everything was a blur except for my desire to makefmusic. Vision helps you focus on what matters to your goal. My fatherfand I didn’t have the best relationship in my teensgf: ut my vision hadfalready begun shifting my attention to making music. Through thefdrama, I noticed the music programs he was using. A solid vision cures you of excuses. My father, being a minister of music, had equipment lying around. He answered a few questions here and there, but I made the most of the gear while he was at work until I figured things out. 4 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP Your vision will explain everything if you spend time with it. My passion was to make music that uplifts people—“birdsongs.” I wanted to go professional and learn about the music business. Hanging around friends who knew major studios got me in the door. I took that knowledge back to my home studio. At every turn, there was someone, something, or some favor to help me along the way. When you’re passionate about your vision, you become innovative. What might seem unusual to others was simply me doing whatever was necessary to get the job done. I taped an old computer mic to the wall, wrapped some of my mom’s old stockings around a looped wire hanger (for a pop filter), upgraded to a Dell laptop until I could afford the first MacBook Pro, found a way to get Reason 2.0, Fruity Loops (before it was FL Studio), Pro Tools, Logic 5 (when it was Emagic), Steinberg Nuendo, and eventually got an inexpensive Shure mic. I spent so much time with the software that I figured out things audio engineers with degrees didn’t know yet. Out of nowhere, my two uncles, Uncle Mike and Uncle Kevin, bought me get a nylon-string guitar similar to the one I saw Lauryn Hill playing on MTV Unplugged. Every time I was seriously passionate about something, it showed up on my path or was within my budget. ‘Write down the vision clearly so that anyone who reads it can easily understand and share it.’” - Habakkuk 2:2: 5 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG If you keep showing up for your vision, it begins to take shape and reveal itself more clearly. For me, that meant rewriting and revising my vision through my songs. Each song was a raw and honest expression, evolving into a personal diary. Keeping a diary or journal became essential for me. It offered a structured way to reflect on my thoughts, goals, and experiences. This practice created a living document that captured the core of my aspirations and reflections. It not only helped me shape a clearer life vision but also kept me aligned with my goals and values. Since I didn’t like my environment, I began dreaming through my songs, using them as a form of escapism. I was constantly living my future in the present tense. I appreciate where I am now because I’m always journeying toward where I want to be. You’ll rarely find me disappointed with my existence because I’m continually moving toward the next destination. My songs became a literal roadmap for my aspirations, turning life into an adventure—a road trip. Hear that? Your roadmap transforms everything into a road trip! Life becomes an adventure when you’re clear about where you’re headed. I spent about four consecutive years as a self-taught guitarist, performing artist, recording artist, songwriter, producer, lyricist, composer, audio engineer, and entrepreneur. While most of my friends were pursuing college, I surrounded myself with a community of likeminded, self-taught music geniuses. The entertainment industry is full of people who don’t take "no" for an answer and remain steadfast in their goals. It’s quite normal in the music industry to be this way, and people respect the hard work you put in to stay on course. In my late teens, I learned how to start an LLC, get an EIN, and open a business bank account to support my vision of writing songs that uplift people. Every song I wrote opened a door aligned with my vision. I created 6 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP music for artists, radio shows, commercials, jingles, TV, churches, websites, and more. In life you have to have a definition, otherwise you’ll let outside influences define you. Your written vision helps you to be clear about what you see for yourself. The only time I faced issues was when I allowed others to divert me from my path with ideas that weren’t right for my vision. It’s not natural for me to create sexually explicit, excessively profane, mean, or derogatory music. While I have great respect and admiration for some of my inspirations who do, that’s not how I dream of myself. Trying to change lanes blurred my vision, making it feel like driving through a fog—fearful, insecure, and untrusting of my surroundings. The music business can be quite challenging, and there are many secret doors leading to undesirable lifestyles if you aren’t firm about your direction. Sometimes, you’ll navigate through phases to discover what you truly want but always believe in yourself and your vision. Even if someone says no, ask again until you get a yes. The word "no" doesn’t hurt me; it only tells me I need to try a different approach. There is no Plan B for my Plan A. Plan A, B, C, and D, all the way to Z, is just another way to achieve Plan A. PERIOD! It’s better to have lived and lost than to not have lived at all. If I’m not going to be happy all the way, at least I can find some happiness in pursuing what makes me happy. I’d rather be happy with what fits my heart than be unhappy with something that’s not for me. Please understand that vision is not a small thing. When you have a vision for your life of how you want it to go, grip onto it with all of your 7 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG might because it’s divine. It’s literally God-given and He inspired this passage so you’ll never have to wonder. "I will pour out my Spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your old men will dream dreams, and your young men will see visions." - Joel 2:28 To recap what I gained from focusing on one vision—creating one song at a time when life was challenging: First, vision introduced me to a new identity through a passion for writing songs. Second, vision provided a distraction from the challenges of my environment. Remember, you can’t always control your environment, but you can control your decision to win anyway. Third, vision connected me to pre-planned opportunities to build not only the song in my vision but also a full music catalog. Fourth, working on that one song led me to develop about ten other useful skill sets then and later in life. I stood out everywhere I went, and those skills now enable me to brand businesses from the ground up. That’s so dope! All of those skills stacked up built me into a visionary entrepreneur. Businesses need a vision statement, mission statement, logo, name and slogan, jingle, branding, commercial, and social media content—all elements I learned while making music. I was divinely set up for life by one small seed of a vision to create a song. Vision visits every one to give their life meaning. What vision has been planted in your heart? 8 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP THE BREAKDOWN I wish the whole planet could grasp this breakdown: God is Love. Passion is a chunk of Himself He gives to humans; i.e., “I have a passion for…” If you follow your passion, it knows its way around because it’s been hanging with God! Passion is chillaxing right now with God in the past, present, and future all at the same time. Passion then enters your heart, taking trips back and forth to align you with Love’s agenda. The passion gives your heart strong desires and makes you want what you want. For this reason, I trust my passion more than I trust myself! If you don’t align with my passion, I probably don’t align with you. I know better. My experiences and trust in my passion have led me to my life, my wife, and other countries, and even rerouted me like a GPS when I took a wrong turn. I want this for all of you. Let me clarify: I’m talking about passion in the context of giftings and vision. I’m not talking about a passion for a hot fudge sundae or a swimsuit model—that’s pure lust. Vision is like aiming for a distant star—it’s your long-term goal, the big dream you’re chasing. Short-term goals are the steps you take to get closer to that star. If you’re putting in the effort and your long-term goal 9 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG still feels out of reach, don’t get discouraged. Sometimes, you just need to reassess and adjust your approach. Habakkuk 2:3 puts it perfectly: “The vision has a set time to happen. Even if it seems to take a while, be patient; it will definitely come true when the time is right.” This verse reminds us that even if our goals don’t unfold on our timetable, patience will eventually bring them to life. When you’re working on turning your passion into reality, love lights the way and helps you navigate the details. I remember feeling frustrated, staring at my hard drive full of unfinished songs. I questioned myself, wondering why I couldn’t finish them. But as I hit each short-term goal, I realized those so-called unfinished tracks were actually opportunities in disguise—jingles for businesses, background music for content that came before Instagram and TikTok, and synclicensing deals I hadn’t even known about. Hitting short-term goals isn’t just about checking boxes; it’s about gaining real-world insights and expanding your knowledge. The hands-on experience you get from chasing your vision provides lessons that a written plan can’t offer. You might have everything you need to move to the next phase, but maybe you haven’t revisited your strategy yet. Look at how some successful artists aren’t necessarily the most talented, but they stay consistent. They reach their milestones, take stock of their progress, and then plan their next steps. I’ve learned that sticking with my vision helps me cut through daily challenges, providing clarity and making my journey more organized and meaningful. So keep pushing forward and revisiting your vision. It’s through the journey, not just the planning, that you’ll find real growth and understanding. 10 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER ONE THE DRIVER’S SEAT TThat last bit of information deserves a joke. “What is a driver’s favorite exercise?”………………… “Car-dio!” Lol. Ba-dum-tss! Zao! That’s how people say good morning here in Taiwan. It’s 4:00 AM, and you are on my mind, so I feel like we’re friends. I don’t know you, but I already want the best for you, almost like a Bestie. Mind if I call you Bestie from time to time? That’ll come in handy when you hear me being direct and maybe a little assertive. My tone is truth out of pure care because I know this topic needs to be shared and is even sometimes hidden. I am extremely passionate about getting this info into your heart. OK, Bestie, I’m going to be side-seat driving like your own personal pocket Jiminy Cricket until you get the gist of vision. If you’re going to hop in the driver's seat and take control of your life, you’re going to have to know where you’re going. Vision is the ability to visualize and see past now. It’s not only thinking about or planning your future, but it’s also navigating your moves with imagination and wisdom. I try to encourage people to look beyond their surroundings and circumstances and allow themselves to set goals for where they want to be. It’s good to enjoy the present moment, but the moments get sweeter when you know where you’re going; when you have a forward-thinking 11 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG mindset to guide your decisions and actions. This way, you know you are getting closer to achieving your dreams and unlocking your potential. I’ll tell you a quick story. After some time in the music business, a season of my life went to branding businesses. Most people don’t know this, but artists are actually businesses, so this was right up my alley. I can’t tell you how many businesses were failing just because they had no logo, slogan, or vision statement. They had no idea how to start because they had no idea of where they were going. The first thing a business should have is a vision statement that can light the road ahead like headlights. In business, and especially in life, confusion can visit like fog at any given turn, so you have to know you’re on the right track. Darkness can set in because you went through the right tunnel or chose to “burn the midnight oil” to beat the traffic at night when it’s less congested. Your head can use vision as the high beams to light your path; hence headlights. Vision is illumination. It is crucial because it helps you decide what you want and don't want in this world, full of innumerable side streets. It sets healthy boundaries and gives structure to your ideas. Vision keeps you on track, providing direction and discipline to pursue your goals. Mind you, without vision, you run wild with no clear path; it’s so easy to zigzag. If you're leading others without a vision, you'll guide them nowhere, which is still a destination, just not a good one. Bestie, look. I need to give you a hard truth that will set you free. I want you to know that you're in control of your own life, and you're the driver of your destiny! DISCLAIMER: If you read the previous sentence, YOU ARE NOW responsible for being aware that you have full responsibility for your outcome... and income. No matter what you've been through, there are enough testimonials of people with hard-knock lives and success stories that prove your setbacks are merely set-ups for a better outcome... and income. Stay tuned to the “Swerve In Your Gift” series where I'll tap into my testimony in future books. For now, I need to get you ready for the road. It's time to take the wheel and steer your life in the direction that YOU WANT. No more waiting for things to happen; it's time to make 12 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP them happen. No more letting things happen without being a little bossy. What I mean is you’re the boss of your vision. We are about to head to the destination you choose on your roadmap. You are in control of your thoughts and your dreams right now. If you let anyone change your thoughts or your dreams, that’s on you. From this point on, you run it, so embrace your past and let it fuel your desire to stay on course. Keep your eyes on the road ahead because you can’t drive forward looking back. The only reason we’ll use our rearview mirror is to watch our past shrink smaller now and then in appreciation of where we came from. There are so many routes to take, and so many people copycatting success. Marketing is at an all-time high, making it very easy to imitate progress. That’s what I call burning rubber; wasting time and resources doing a lot of movement without moving anywhere. They’re just blowing smoke! I don’t want you to fall into the trap of making a lot of moves without making any progress. Thankfully for us, I've dedicated the majority of my life to the study of purpose in the area of gifting. As we proceed, this book is not a group activity or a couple's book. This is a very personal book designed for a person to do deep introspection, and I would advise you to focus on yourself until your vision is written. I want to help you pinpoint yourself, so this book is going to serve as a condensed guide of 30 years of compiled information that can help you see your vision more clearly. So sit back, relax, and get ready to journey with me through the world of Vision. Is there anything I mentioned that is stirring upcontroversy in your mind right now? If so, jot itdown. 13 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG (text) (text) 14 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER TWO THE ROAD AHEAD MMy childhood was filled with road trips. My family and I enjoyed the best times traveling back and forth from Georgia to Ohio to visit relatives. This clearly etches my face in the Mount Rushmore of road-trippers. So if you missed out on a ‘90s road trip, our ideas of fun were McDonald’s, radio, gas-stationgoodies, looking out the window, sleeping, motion sickness, and a dad joke or two like this one I’m about to give you. “What did one eye say to the other eye?”.…..................... “Between you and me, ‘something smells’!” Lol! Ba-dum-tss! Just a heads up, I'll soon be releasing a book called "Swerve in Your Gift," which will explain how your gift is your transportation to drive you to your specific dreams. So, like a car, your gift has to have a specific blueprint. Every car has a detailed blueprint and is built to specifications. What's interesting is that the vision for where the car is designed to go determines the blueprint. Let’s define a blueprint. A blueprint is a detailed plan or strategy designed to achieve a specific goal. The thing you strongly want to do in life has its detailed blueprint. It has a specific roadmap and it is your job to design it to your specifications. 15 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG A car designer creates a blueprint based on the purpose of the car. The intended purpose of the car determines its design. Imagine if you were a car. What type of car would you be? What type of terrain are you designed for? Are you built for tough environments like a tank for a soldier, or more domesticated trips like a sedan for a spouse? What kind of passengers will you have? Will you be a party bus for a promoter or a police car for an officer? Are you a Tesla focusing on safety like a bodyguard, or a Lamborghini, focusing on speed like a sprinter? Are you a delivery vehicle for Amazon, like a courier, or a luxury car for Uber Black, like a chauffeur? The purpose of the product dictates how the blueprint should be made and what the product should go through, the environment it should be tested in. You might be going through a bit of testing because of where you're headed. It's good to take some time and just sit with your thoughts for an hour or so. Take an account of your feelings, likes, and dislikes, and the things you are passionate about. What triggers you? What are you sensitive about? If you could have it your way, how would you have it? If you're okay with everything, how would you make it better for others? It's good to pinpoint what exactly is going on inside your heart (subconscious mind), especially if you went through a serious challenge in life recently. You may have developed a thicker skin, a tougher mind, or gained some experience you never had before that is directly connected to where you will be going. You may have even experienced some peace or an uplifting experience that imprinted goodness into your heart. How has that changed your life? Jot it downBestie. There's no judgment here. 16 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP What kind of person are you? What kind of person do you want to be? (text) (text) 17 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG Have you had any life-changing eventsrecently? Have you ever gone through anything that hasshaped your outlook on life? (text) (text) 18 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP How do you see life now? (text) (text) 19 (CONTENTS) CONTENTS(CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER THREE THE TEST TRACK YYou knew it was coming. “Why did the bicycle fall over?”…............ “Because it was ‘two-tired’!” Lol. Ba-dum-tss! Okay seriously, Bestie, I feel like I can be honest with you. As a believer, I know many people who converted to a higher spirituality, gained a renewed and fresh spirit, and then spent the rest of their lives trying to understand everything about God. They rarely think about finding out about the new person they are who Christ inspired. God went through all that work to make you a new creature, and you spend the rest of your 120 years trying to know everything about the eternal God? You don’t have enough time. You should be more interested in finding out why the eternal God would want to spend 120 years on this planet with you! There must be something special about you, and He knows it. When was the last time you sat with your new self, took your new self on a date, listened to your new self's point of view, or spent less time judging your new self, and more time celebrating your new self? There might be some wrinkles in your life that your new self can help iron out. It’s not a bad thing if your new self wants to spend time detoxing from old things. Your new self may want to understand why it was doing those old things anyway, going to those old places 21 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG with those old people. You should pay attention to the feelings of the new you without judgment. And spend a lot of time with your new self because God went through a lot of work making the new you an option. Not to preach to you, Bestie, but I truly believe that since God began a good work in you, He’s going to see it through. I believe He’s acting as the quality assurance manager during all your challenges, standing next to you closely and going through every test and trial to make sure you are road-tested and approved for your journey. You may even feel weaker right now or worse off than before. Not to worry! You’re getting kitted up! That’s a fancy way to say you’re getting customized. You’re going to feel awesome and perform better in the end, but sometimes you have to get taken apart to get rebuilt. The quality assurance manager may strip you of all your beauty and paint, jack you up, and take the wheels off, so you have to sit still for a while. You may think you’re going through some glitches, but you’re getting updated software so you can think better in the long run. It’s all in the good spirit of getting you to reach your highest potential. You may not feel good at first, but wait till you get going, and they will see you go full throttle! The facility where new cars are built and tested for quality assurance is typically called a test track. In these facilities, manufacturers conduct various tests to ensure the vehicles meet safety, performance, and quality standards before they are released to the market. Do you hear that? You’re going through what you’re going through because you’re getting a stamp of approval. You are not just a person experiencing hardship because of bad luck. You’re not being bullied because you’re the weakest link in the chain. You are not a failure. You are being tested in the same way over and over again because your creator knows you were designed to pass this test. You’re not being tested because there is something wrong with you; you’re being tested because you are designed to level up! You are designed to make decisions at a higher level and be the prototype so people can see it done. You are the demonstration. It’s because you are meaningful to this life, and the way you move is extraordinary and needs to be shared with the world. The life puzzles you solve will give you the insight to help someone else with theirs. 22 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP You need to be manufactured. You are so important that we need you to have offspring who will influence the world the way you do. If you are a kid, we’re counting on you to be a leader and spread positivity to your peers so the world can be a better place. Just imagine if the person you influence becomes the next mayor or president or holds a position of delegated authority somewhere. You will create a ripple that will change environments. If you would only notice that the environment you’re in is not your downfall, it’s your training ground. It is your testing facility; your test track. Speaking of environments, did you know that minds are places? The definition of a place is an area or environment where something happens. What is happening in this place called my mind? What type of mind do I need for where I’m going, and what minds should be allowed to give me direction? What type of mindsets should have input on my thoughts and questions? What type of people, places, and things should be able to even speak into my creative process? You have to have the right environment for the job. Take a plant, for instance. It may start small, living in a little pot, but if you want it to grow big, it has to be placed in a different environment where the roots can spread and absorb more nutrients. If not, the plant will never grow to reach its full potential. Some people you are around think too small. You may have the desire and the ability to grow and do big things, but without a change of environment, you’ll stunt your growth like a plant. Your environment determines your growth. If you’re a kid, I understand you can’t control your environment 23 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG fully, but you can control your friends and the people you hang out with. If you live with your parents, it’s important to learn how to be a good son or daughter and student. Be obedient and listen the first time when people who love you give you instructions. Being a good follower makes you a great leader in the long run. A very important sidenote is that parents are there to lead you in the way you should go so you can think righteous for yourself when you grow up. Eventually, you have to sort out everything you've heard from your parents and realize that from time to time they were probably wrong about many things. Perfection was not your parents’ assignment. My good brother Eric Crawford (founder of GRiGT, father of 3, and youth coach) explained that kids want two things: 1. Love 2. Affirmation that they are good enough to be heard. I think the children speak for us all in the fact that they want an environment where their voices are heard and hold value. Parents may not get everything right but this part is so necessary. We admire our parents and pretty much believe anything they say to us, so let's all try to stay very close to teaching and demonstrating love: “Love is patient and kind. It doesn't envy or brag. It's not arrogant or rude. It doesn't insist on its own way. It’s not easily angered and doesn’t keep a record of wrongs. Love doesn’t rejoice in wrongdoing but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, and always endures.” As adults, some of us merely exist and don’t know what we want to do, making us indecisive about what environment to choose. But there is a backup plan called vision. If you haven't already, you will start seeing things that you want to do and thinking about things you really 24 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP want to have, places you really want to go, and people you really want to meet. These are clues to put you on the right track. It would be wise to think of these things in depth before you start making moves. It would be even wiser to write them down. List some people, places, and things you thinkabout connecting with from time to time. Don'tbe shy... People: Places: (text) 25 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG Things: (text) (text) 26 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER FOUR NAVIGATING TRAFFIC WWhat you wrote contains important details within your vision. A vision in life serves as a blueprint or roadmap to see the road ahead. Let’s build on the metaphor that your gift is the car that will drive you to your dreams, and vision is the roadmap to keep you on course. For example, if you ever sit in a car, bus, or train, it’s not unusual to lose sight of where you are or where you're going because you can't see the full route ahead. But if you open Google Maps or a maps app, you can see everything from a bird's eye view. In life, we often lose track of where we are and where we’re going, but if we have a roadmap, we can navigate to a better route and even find shortcuts along the way. Sometimes we’re so into what we’re doing that we only zoom in on a small section of the big picture, like standing right in front of the movie screen at the theater. But when you move to the back row, you can see everything clearly, like an overview. Having an overview of where you’re going can also help you plan for possible challenges. SPOILER ALERT! YOU WILL HAVE CHAL-LENGES. Challenges are so special. Before we even get started, decide to have a good relationship with challenges. Change your views about the things that challenge you. There’s not a person in life who doesn’t 27 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG run into problems or challenges. I see them as roadblocks that I either need to power up and power through or swerve around. Vision helps you see problems for what they really are. They are opportunities to crank up! They challenge your greatness to come out, forcing you to think outside the normal routes. Bestie, I mentioned earlier that you are unique. That means your challenges will be unique and specifically designed to sharpen your uniqueness. That means you have to have unique responses to those unique challenges. You have to have people around you that don’t mind you being unique. The people you have in your circle shouldn’t mind you being yourself. They shouldn’t see you as weird. They should see you as what you are… an individual with your own unique thoughts and responses. That being said, your friends should also be unique and supportive of how different you are. They should be assets adding value to who you are not liabilities taking away from the goal. I’m telling you, Bestie, I believe you’re carrying something special, and vision will help you map out who should be speaking into your life. You have to be mindful of what comes in your ears and what you allow yourself to see. The world is a beautiful place, and it’s full of beautiful people and cultures, so you don’t need to hide from differences, but you do need to monitor what you are taking in on a constant basis. Whatever you get the most of is what you’re going to be the most of. You need space to be creative and get all of your ideas out to ensure you don’t allow someone to corrupt your views or blur your vision. We need to clearly see where you’re going. Write some challenges you might face. Places 28 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP Things People (text) (text) 29 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG (text) 30 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER FIVE LOOK FOR THE FASTLANE GGood job navigating traffic. Speaking of achievements, “Why did the scarecrow win an award?”…..”Because he was ‘outstanding’ in his field!” Lol. Ba-dum-tss! When I speak about vision, most people immediately think about money. They dream of the riches and wealth that money can buy them, but money can’t buy health, friends, self-discovery, or inner peace. Money doesn’t sharpen you and without a vision, riches will be wasted. Money doesn’t make you successful; money is a result of you already being successful in your thinking. I can't blame you for thinking that way if you do. We were programmed to think about what's going to give us enough cash to be comfortable in life. Most of our parents teach us to go for the career with the money rather than pursue our dreams and passions that give us a happy existence. Some parents teach us to be so religious pretending that money plays no part in a happy life; tell that to someone poor. I am more inclined to keep my motivation pure and do what 31 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG makes me happy first, and what makes other people happy second. This is a self-love that most of us have not been taught when it comes to planning for our lives. So we don't get distracted by money, let's say you have millions of dollars already and you are successful. What would you be doing in your leisure time? What do you have a passion for? Are you a Thanos type of person who conquers worlds just to cook in your garden? Are you a Michael Jackson type of person, who overcomes a lifetime of challenges for the passion of performing songs? Maybe you're an Israel Adesanya type of person who will train his whole life for the glory of the title. Or maybe you just want to sit on your million-dollar estate and play a guitar, write a book, record a song, paint a picture, design, or focus on health and fitness. Here are some questions you should take a moment to answer: What are my true passions and interests? (text) What can I do? 32 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP What do I have that no one gave me? What skills and knowledge do I have? (text) (text) (text) 33 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG What impact do I want to make on the world? How can I make the world better than how I found it? (text) (text) I mentioned in the first chapter that setbacks are setups for your outcome... and income. Look up any success story from any 34 THE ROADMAP (CONTENTS) CONTENTSsuccessful person you admire, and they will confirm the last sentence. You should know that if you get into the business of solving problems for yourself, you’re in business! What I’m saying is, that the more problems you solve in your life, the more you raise your value in someone else’s life. You can sell your solutions if you want. People will purchase your answers. Business is simply selling a service or solving a problem. Keep solving those problems! When you know what you can solve, you also know who can help you. Let me give you an example. Storytime! I have a good friend who I won’t mention (and who will probably punch me for writing this). My good friend is what you call diesel. I mean, the muscles on this guy look like extra people. I almost want to say he has multiple personalities, lol. He is “the man" in a foreign land, and everyone recognizes him as soon as they see him. He looks like a personal trainer and a personal gym all in one. You get my point. My friend is into health and fitness, and he eats the same way that he looks... disciplined. When I see him, I am immediately inspired and aware that I do not look like that, but I suddenly want to. It is intriguing to everyone who sees him how beautiful this guy’s physique is. Enough singing his praises. My point is, that when you know what you can solve, you also know who can help you. Some years ago, he had a really hard time in a foreign country, learning the language, the culture, and making money. Well, if you know anything about the US, it has a lot of influence in the surrounding countries. We are a capitalistic, media-driven culture, and other countries pay attention to how much we work out, the workout machines we use, and especially the fashion trends that we associate with sports. It’s no different in the country that my dear friend landed in. He is the walking solution for anyone feeling like a physically smaller or unhealthy person. He could 35 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG charge as little or as much as he wants, and I’m telling you, from the bottom up, he can make a very lucrative business teaching people about health and fitness. With a little vision and proper planning, he can be financially stable doing what makes him happy. Remember, when you know what you can solve, you also know who can help you. Out of pure speculation coupled with my opinion, some years ago, when he first touched down, any setback he could imagine could’ve been resolved by simply solving health and fitness problems for one happy customer. He’s a fresh face, and no one has ever known him for anything less than being a diesel-looking upstanding gentleman. This new country he landed in is tech central, so they were around and probably responsible for helping to make the most of the social media tech that exists today. I bet he would’ve trained some people who could easily handle his social media if he wasn’t interested in that part. Like most of us with a vision, he can be private and a little shy, so he could rely on word-of-mouth advertising just like I’m doing now. He’s an inspiring brother. One of those students could’ve probably taught him the local language in return for his training. Did you catch my drift? No setback wouldn’t have been a setup if he simply had the vision, wrote it down, and stuck to it. Again, this is pure speculation coupled with my opinion, but a solid takeaway is that when you know what you can solve, you also know who can help you. I call all of this the Fastlane. This is how you can accelerate your success (however that looks to you). If you can understand this in your youth, you will save yourself so many years and headaches. The road doesn’t have to be stressful and confusing. It’s always going to be challenging, but you can also have a good time. With a solid vision, there will be times you can relax on cruise control if you know where you’re going. If your kids see dad and mom working hard to reach a goal, there’s a strong possibility they’ll take pride in keeping the legacy going 36 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP and doing the things that you can’t do at this time with this technology. When you decide to be a leader, your life will follow. I’m going to ask you some questions that took me over five years to answer. I thought I knew the answers, but my heart was not calm enough, making me reason from my inner bruises, not my inner peace. Make this ride a joyride, not a race. Take as much time as you need to live with the questions, letting the answers come to you without pressure. I believe in you, Bestith! What problem(s) can you solve? What solutions can you make better? (text) (text) 37 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG Would you start a movement or a businessproviding your solutions? Let’s hear it! (text) (text) 38 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER SIX A MAN’S PASSENGER YYou know, I wanna type you a hot topic about relationships but my computer’s cold. I think I left my ‘Windows’ open! Lol. Badum-tss! Fellas, can I have your attention, please? Are you listening? I mean, are you really, REALLY listening? When you know what you can solve, you also know who can help you… including your wife! It gets a whole lot easier to narrow down who your life partner is when you narrow down what you need help with. I think we’re all past getting someone for a pretty face and a bangin’ body! The question is, who knows what I’m working on in life, and who can help with it? Who can genuinely say they have a passion for what you have a passion for and align with where you’re going? Who is compatible in that sense? Once again, I’m not saying get someone for where you are now; I’m saying get someone who can support the problems you’ve been solving in life. Who helps you shine brighter to light the paths of the people you want to inspire? Get someone for where you are going! I wish I could scream this from every mountaintop so the world of men can hear me. Fun fact: I have three sisters and no brothers. If you add my mom, that means I was raised in a household of three generations of women, including their friends, daughters, and female relatives. And when 39 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG women talk, they reeeeeally talk! I was blessed with the opportunity to listen from a perspective of respect. I got to be a grandson, son, brother, uncle, and friend who looked up to women. So, men, allow me to share my findings as I have sacrificed to be a true double agent and faithful spy for the male community. Do you know how many women I know are frustrated because they see a man and know exactly what they can do to make his life a living heaven, but the man doesn’t realize his potential or understand how he inspires people? Women are so nosy— I mean that in the most positive way, lol. They watch you and pay attention to everything you are saying and doing, and in the back of their minds, they already have a detailed plan for how they can exist next to you or avoid you at all costs, lol. Sometimes they spot you before you spot them, and they hope you come over and say something because being there for you is on their minds. Women are great conversationalists, gathering data, and the whole time they’re thinking, "Man, I could help him out... but I’m not cheap. I’m going to need a ring on my finger so my efforts don’t go to waste." There is a nation of beautiful women singing Beyoncé’s song, "If you like it, then you need to put a ring on it." Women are saying, "I can upgrade you! But I am too valuable for my time to be wasted!" Most women I know don’t know how to put this into words, but they get frustrated following a man nowhere. When they marry you, they will believe in you until the bitter end, but if they could have it their way, you would have a vision and they would help to keep you on course. Let me tell you, men, there’s nothing like having companionship as a passenger on your journey. Having support and being understood is priceless, but there are a lot of wonderful people out there who might be good for you but not right for where you’re going. People spend so much time learning how to play the dating game that they’ve become more interested in the sport rather than the championship. They’ve strayed away from the goal of finding one good, solid teammate to having never-ending tryouts and sometimes eventually just playing for the “other side.” Do you see how easy it is to view marriage as a “tryout” due to too 40 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP much dating? Without a solid vision, we often forget that with every partner, we’re building character—literally adding characteristics whether we want them or not. Some of us are professional daters who’ll get married and find it difficult to shake the old profession. We can be so good at being single that we bring a “single” mindset into a marriage. It’s good to have friends without crossing the lines of intimacy physically and in conversation. Everyone should be aware not to date a lot because you might be practicing divorce, becoming a professional at loving, and leaving. What if you’ve normalized recovering from breakups so much that you only feel normal if a relationship is broken —like a professional divorcee better at moving on than staying committed? Are you familiar with negative feelings fromromantic relationships? Non-romantic relationships (family, friends, orbusiness)? (text) 41 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG (text) 42 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER SEVEN A LIFE-LONG ROADIE FFellas, are you building a character that wins in your relationships, or are you becoming a relationship hobbyist? Think of it like playing basketball on the playground versus in the NBA. Most kids on the playground are excellent at a solo game, but you have to get acclimated to being part of a team and growing with your teammates if you ever want your life to benefit. You can't expect your passion to impact your life substantially if you only play it to satisfy your curiosity. You have to know where you want it to take you and develop what it takes to win. You have to play to win! It’s the same in the dating world. Dating is easy: just sleep around, break hearts, get heartbroken, and waste time diving into long conversations, music, movies, and posts to keep that same energy. But if you want a life-long roadie (a wife) and you’re purpose-driven, dating should turn into courting. Courting is intentional to evaluate a person for a lifelong partnership. You have to know where you’re going so you can be the team captain and lead your wife and kids to success. It all comes back to vision. Women, relationships are like ships in the sense that they take you places. You might want to know where that man is going before you hop on his “ship.” Is he trying to cruise and spend time with you? Is he 43 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG like a speedboat, always in a hurry to “get the job done”? Is he racing like a jet ski to outrun another relationship? Or does he stay out all night fishing for the next catch? How many relation“ships” has he had? What happened to the last one? Ask questions and get answers, ladies, so you can plan for the trip or avoid it altogether. He’s taking you somewhere, and though women are very persuasive, you’ll still end up following his leadership. Your man should make you feel secure, covered, respected, supported, and you should be able to trust his sense of direction is worth aligning with. Ladies, men are not designed to instinctively make you the captain of their ship. Before a man asks you to enter his world, he already knows where he’s going. He didn’t invite you for his leisure; you serve a purpose in what he sees for himself. His life was set up by a vision or the lack of one. His vision has specific coordinates to land him somewhere. Some men plan extensively to go nowhere, and guess what? They always reach that destination too. Please don’t drive yourself crazy building multiple characters for multiple relationships. You can’t stay together if you’re being pulled in too many directions. Relationships shouldn’t land you in a mode of survival instead of passion. Who will you be satisfied satisfying? Who can you work “with” and not “for”? Who are you pleased to be pleasing? Is his version of peace refreshing to you, or does it break your peace to try to keep him peaceful? It would be wise to put talks of love last and first find out if your visions align. Do your big ideas match? I dated some decent people in my past, but none who protected my peace like my wife. My wife didn't have a problem putting me first, which was perfect for me because I knew I would have to empower her to put me first by putting her first. Men naturally desire and have an undying wish to adore a special lady. I had to know I wasn't going to risk my peace or my dreams by doing so. If she's going to be my star player/MVP, I'm going to have to invest all of me into her so we can reach our mutual dreams. When I got married, I knew exactly where I wanted to go, and I was already en route. I had been making trips back and forth on my “dream boat” and wanted to share the adventures with my wife. But in any relationship, communication is the key. Before I 44 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP ever told her my passions, they came out of her mouth as things on her bucket list she wanted to check off. We hadn't wasted too much time with deep talks about love yet. When you’re dating, “who you love” will never be as important as “what you love” because you should run into “who you love” as you’re pursuing “what you love”. Vision connects us to purpose and the pursuit of purpose connects us with like-minded people, including husband and wifey. That's how you make the introduction. Get over the love-at-first-sight theory. Attraction at first sight is dope! It’s beautiful when you notice someone so attractive that you want to spend time learning about them. Make it about learning them, allowing them to share the way they see things for themselves, waiting patiently to gently unfold your vision over time. But you should find out how much you love each other through sharing bite-size pieces of what you love together over time. Wifey had my attention because she connected to my passions without me having to convince her to like what I like. I don't have to persuade her to support what she is already living for. I don't have to explain to her how to support my vision because it intersects with hers, causing us to meet in the middle. Love shouldn’t be a selection to talk about until you find a person worth investing love into. Think about what you've been investing your time, passion, and energy into already. You’re most affected by what has your affection, so make sure your mate is affectionate about you continuing in what you love. If their love for you, can't reach your passion, don’t waste your time, Bestie. You’ve worked so hard and all of you should be taken seriously. I spent a lot of time on this to clear up something. God is NOT in the business of choosing your mate. Just like you know your tastebuds to choose your food; you know your shoe size to choose your shoes, and you know your vibe to choose your friends; 45 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG your vision for your life or lack of one will determine how you choose your partner. What are you partnering for? Hey Bestie, before you start dating, let’s reviewyour life goal. What does success look like to you? (text) (text) 46 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP (text) Let’s do some critical thinking. The fact that you are a dreamer might be very attractive, but a partner with low self-esteem could feel threatened by your winning mentality. It’s not unusual for people with low confidence to need you to remain average so they can feel important. What if you’re in a plus-size relationship but you’ve always had a vision to look and feel healthier? You’re about to decide to change your lifestyle by altering your habits and losing weight. You research and realize that to maintain your fitness goals, you need to change your environment, dietary budget, meal prep, and get around some like-minded folks. Is your plus-size partner OK with the changes? Will they join you? Will you have two completely separate lifestyles in the same space? Are they good for you now only, or also right for where you’re going? Here’s another scenario. You have a lot of money now and you’ve met someone happy with your income. You have a vision that requires financial investment. When the going gets tough and the money isn’t as plentiful as it used to be, do you have someone good for your loaded bank account or right for your loaded vision? My point is, that you’re ever-growing, ever-changing, and being 47 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG shaped to fit your vision. Don’t get someone who’s a “good idea” for now. Get someone who has the “right idea” for where you’re going. Who’s going to ride along with the vision that you have? This means that above all, you have to have a vision to share. Ideally, you should already be putting the blueprint to good use so whoever you ask to be involved in your life can see what you’re involved in already. I’ll tap into this more in a future book, but women, please don’t feel bad if you don’t have a big old vision for your life. Minus some very harsh upbringings, many women dream of being so in love that they become wives. They think about supporting their husbands and raising and loving children. Even when their dream is career-driven, somewhere in the dream, they find themselves settling down. I’m not saying that women can’t, and don’t, have big aspirations—please don’t misunderstand. I’m saying that even with those aspirations, women are also designed like vision factories. A close friend of mine has a plastic factory. Inventors send their blueprints to the factory, and out of the mold comes the product. Things like games, consoles, and exercise machines all came to this factory and then were sent out to change the world. Think of it like a factory-sized 3-D printer. The factory is capable of some amazing results, but the blueprints have to be very specific. You put in the plastic; add the details; and the product pops out. A man with a specific blueprint for his life pursues a woman, knowing that she is more than a baby factory. To add to all the wonders of a woman, she is also a vision factory, and to us, it is a big deal! Babies are just obvious illustrations of how awesome women are to us. When a man gives a woman a sperm, he’s just given her a vision for a life. In a way that men will never understand, women take that sperm and add every single detail it could ever need to become the fullness of that vision in her vision-factory of a womb. Put in a seed; she adds the details; then a whole baby pops out! Men are smart. We think, “If a woman can take a sperm and do all of that, imagine what she could do with my passion.” Put in a vision; she adds the details; out pops a solid plan, support, companionship, and a life partner. Have you ever seen a mother nurture and protect her babies? Men know a true woman will 48 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP nurture and protect their vision the same way. Imagine all the internal development that happens when you share your vision with her. A woman can produce a baby in only nine months! It’s hard to start a successful business in nine months with a whole team of people! No man can replicate or even possibly understand how a woman gives life. Even with all of our tech, imagine how many unnoticed, remarkable breakthroughs can go into how a lady gives life to your ideas. I remember my mom making some of my most ridiculous childhood ideas seem achievable. Lol. This is why, when a man pursues a woman, he’s basically saying, “Help me!” He gets down on one knee and begs her to do the stuff that only she can do and that he will never be able to do. “I’m going to give you my ideas. Can you please nurture them, support them, and cushion my heart in a way that no one else but you can? I want a specific lady for this specific heart full of vision that I have. No one else can do for me what you do.” If you're already married and didn't consider any of this, don’t feel bad. But please don't be foolish enough to throw the information away because you think it doesn't apply to you at this point. Vision is not a one-and-done. It's a roadmap; it’s never too late to plan your trip or even revise it. For example, if you were 20 years old and wanted to sprint in the Olympics’ 100m dash, but now you’re 60 years old and not physically capable, you can still condition like a runner or coach, speak about going all the way for the dream, and nowadays it wouldn’t be farfetched to start a 60s running league. Who knows what’s possible in the world of vision? I dare to say anything is possible. Have you ever thought about marriage? 49 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG Now that you have an understanding of vision,how does that affect your views of marriage? (text) (text) 50 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP How does vision fit into your idea of marriage? (text) (text) 51 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG How does marriage fit into your vision? (text) (text) 52 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP (text) 53 (CONTENTS) CONTENTS(CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER EIGHT ROAD-TESTED & APPROVED IIlearned a long time ago that real truth is direct and without a lot of fluff. The more you mold truth into a form everyone accepts, the more it becomes untrue. As a martial artist, I’ve learned that the truth of a situation can even sting a little. Speaking of getting stung, “Why do bees have sticky hair?”………………. “Because they always use ‘honey-combs’!” Lol. Get it? Ba-dum-tss! If you spend 30 years studying vision like I have, in time, you’ll find everything in this book is biblically sound and/or scientifically proven. In my research, I found people writing on this subject, but not in a way I could grasp and apply practically in day-to-day life. I know this information to be true because I apply it. I live it time and again, just like the countless people I have studied. Even still, I’m being renovated, making room like lungs that use the old air to its maximum then exhaling it to make room for the refreshed. Revelation is like light shining on a person. If you’re walking with your back turned to the light, you always see the shadow of who you were and what was. I’ve learned to look into the light, facing the truth by looking ahead. My point is that having a roadmap for my life saved me from insanity. Insanity isn't a diss; it's a mindset. Albert Einstein describes insanity as actions that are repeated without changes but still result in the same, 55 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG often negative, outcomes. It's doing something over again but expecting different results. I decided the character I chose to be in my storyline has a sound mind. I want to see a change in my life, so I have to change something about myself. Remember, you are in the driver's seat. If you find yourself heading down the wrong road over and over again, try changing your mind. All information doesn't solve your problems, but vision stretches you, expands your knowledge base, and gets you more in touch with yourself. Even still, I find myself having to spit out old bones to make room for the meat. This process is ongoing. It's okay to wrestle with this information. It is a seed, and it will grow over time. I do want you to pay attention to what wells up in you as you write. What things jump up and cause you to fight off tons of caution and negative thoughts? What imaginations show up? The “300” movie voice speaks, "As you jot down your roadmap, a feeling washes over you, painting illusions of a dark and gloomy, haunted-looking road. Under the full moon, the sound of wolves howling fills the air, their eerie cries mingling with familiar voices warning you of looming danger. The biting of nails and chattering teeth serve as a prelude to their tales of fear-based caution. The frantic footsteps of those fleeing in terror from the unfamiliar path echo in your ears, urging you to reconsider, convinced that you are illequipped for the journey ahead. The desperate pleas of panicked family and friends crescendo, their voices trembling with fear as they implore you to 56 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP retreat, their own anxieties fueling doubts of your success." I’ve obviously seen way too many movies, so fear usually comes to me in a visually dramatic way. But you take power away from fear by confronting it. Vision is very confrontational and does not like intruders. Meanwhile, fear is afraid of being noticed. It is a whisperer in the shadows so once you shine light on it, you burn a hole through it. Be the border patrol of your thoughts and never let fears trespass on creative grounds. I want to share something personal, even though it might make me seem vulnerable. I used to be very afraid that following my dreams might take me away from God's plan for my life. As a believer, I was scared to be an artist. This fear was so strong that it paralyzed me, and I was afraid to take any steps forward. I felt like I was just a regular person who wanted to be an artist, but after becoming a Christian, I worried that my dreams might not fit with what Christ wanted for me. I was afraid to make a move because I wasn’t sure if it was the right choice and didn’t want to end up in trouble. Over time, I grew in my faith and life experience. I began to understand that everything about me was planned even before time began. The truth is, I was born an artist. Whether it's visual art, music, martial arts, or cooking, I love art so much that I want to create it, especially music. No matter what I do in life, I always want to return to my true self: artistry. Just like a fish is made to swim and a bird is made to fly, I’m made to elevate through music. If I’m doing something that pulls me away from this, I end up resenting it. Being around people who were focused on religion made me think that my only option was to make music for churchgoers or the gospel industry. I had to step away from that crowd for a season to realize that being an artist is who I am. My honesty and self-expression through music uplift my soul and bring me closer to my spiritual self, affirming my spirituality. When I let fear shake my confidence, I wasted time and felt regret, losing touch with loving and expressing all of myself. I had to let go of my arrogance, thinking I had God all figured out. 57 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG The more I cocoon myself in my artistry, the more I have peace, and the more I’m in an environment that puts my soul in a zone to receive from the Father. It took me some time to understand that there’s nothing wrong with being who I am and that I’m not judged by the Divine for how He made me. Instead, I feel that He takes pleasure in my success. "Beloved, I pray that you may prosper in all things and be in health, just as your soul prospers." Write some fears you face when you thinkabout vision. Interrogate the fear. Did it come from you? Didit come from something you’ve seen? Did itcome from something you heard? Or did itcome from something you experienced? (text) 58 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP Fear is never present to encourage you, so ifyou had to guess, what would be the goal ofthis particular fear? (text) (text) Identifying your fears is not the most pleasant part of this journey, but it is so rewarding. I hope you have some more courage left in the tank because we have to keep going. Why do some people project their fears onto you? Because no one has ever been down this road you designed! It's unfamiliar and people tend to be afraid of things or people they don't understand. It's your blueprint, so of course, you'll run into people who are afraid to think at your pace. Sometimes you can just think about a person and know what they're going to say already. You might even have a case of 59 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG stinking thinking and conjure up some of "self's finest homemade fears." Vision wants to lead and guide you into the truth of what you see, so it’s usually the first thought. It comes innocent, bold, happy, thrilled, and excited. It’s always lit with the possibilities of what good things can happen. Vision is usually big and intimidating. Self-doubt can creep in making it easy to begin second-guessing yourself. In this stage, you jump into your pool of ideas then doubt floods you with past, present, and future fears until you jump out of the idea altogether. The relief is temporary, but the torment of never trying your idea comes later. The third step shouldn’t be another thought. You should call in reinforcements, Bestie. Reinforce the first thought with words that never take “no” for an answer. Doubt comes from fear-based words you have seen, heard, or experienced. Your best move is to speak faith-based words until you see, hear, and experience them! Faith is speaking like it's already done because you know it's going to be. Faith without works has no life, so it requires you to put some action behind whatever you say you believe. Make moves knowing everything is going to work out. Speak the opposite of the doubtful things until you hear faith-based things in your mind. Change every "I can't" to "I can." Change "what if this doesn't work" to "what if it's already working." Go from speaking about what happened to commanding what is about to happen and what is happening now. Say less about who you were and more about who you choose to be. Say more! Change conceited and overconfident thoughts to words filled 60 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP with courage and self-esteem. Get fired up! You tell that fear what it really is until the illusion disappears. I’ll give you a jump to get you up and running: “I’m strong!” “I’m mighty!” “I’m bold!” “I candoall things!” “My joy is full!” “I prosper in everything I do!” “I have full confidence!” “I have highself-esteem!” “I trust that I make good moves!” “I am righteous!” “I am positive!” “I have a sound mind!” “My peace is full!” “I experience 100% wholeness…NOW!” “My family is divinely protected!” “My legacy is established and firmly solidified!” “I have extended life in my health!” “I have supernatural wisdom and understanding!” “I receive full length of days for me and my family” I dare you to say that list of positive words toyourself. I dare you to say it like you mean it!Try it a few times. If your faith could make you a giant and shrinkfears, what faith-based words would youspeak? 61 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG If you have no fears, doubts, or worries, onlypeace, boldness, and power...how would youthink about the road ahead? Think that way. (text) (text) Every life has a purpose, which means vision is for everyone. The information you get from me should stretch you, and maybe even chal62 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP lenge you. I don’t mind being the ceiling of weeds that challenge your growth and make you have to reposition your mind. Take your time processing, but the writing process should be exciting and adventurous. Just think; you get to write your own story! You can be whatever and whoever you want to be! You can go wherever you want to go, and you can also explore until you find out what you have a passion for. The only limitation you have is your mind. Write everything and go through the process of elimination until you really find out what you connect to. This is freedom and liberation at its best! In the United States, there was a time of intense slavery. Some slaves used their freedom to go back to slavery because their vision couldn’t see past where they had been. That’ll preach! Chains can never shackle a liberated mind, but a slave to the mind can never be free. The worst kind of slave is a slave to the mind. You have all this freedom waiting to be seized, but you let someone project their idea of your freedom onto you. “Freeeee your mind Neyo!” Get out of The Matrix. We didn’t land on this vast planet to live in boxes. During your life, you must unpack yourself and stretch out till you bust out of the box. When you write your vision, you should not be afraid to be excited. Be aware of yourself, and don’t be afraid to be let down. Cheer up! Manage your time and don’t let distractions, past traumas, and even past successes hinder you. Past successes can be the worst enemy of vision because you think you see the way things are going to work as they did in the past. Don’t be afraid to let go of sections of your life to advance your thinking, go higher, and get better. Past successes are wonderful as long as you don’t get stuck there. Allow yourself to grow and look forward to the victories ahead. 63 (CONTENTS) CONTENTS(CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER NINE YOU PAID THE TOLL YYou’re still here? I’m proud to say I’m proud of you, Bestie! Let’s show them what you’re made of! “Made of” is a good transition to my next joke. “Why don’t skeletons fight each other?”….. “Because they don’t have enough guts!” Ba-dum-tss! Lol… too much huh? Now that you notice fears and have begun a habit of confronting them, it'll be useful to safeguard against the feelings of being unqualified. You can do this by loading up on those spoken affirmations in the last chapter or speaking some custom sayings for yourself. Another way is reminding yourself of all the things you've been through to get to "you." Count your blessings. I’m not talking about schools, degrees, accolades, or certifications only. I'm talking about self-work. The things you had to overcome to get the information. Just by being alive, you paid the price to write your own story. You paid the toll to arrive in the land of the living and build your world. Life is good, but it is challenging enough to render you qualified. You put effort into being the beautiful person you are now. The fact that you're reading this book means that you did not give up and you stayed in the game. It means you did not allow self-doubt to take over your existence. 65 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG You are qualified to write your story and be the superhero that you are writing about. You must believe in yourself. I’m aware that everyone does not have the same beliefs as I do, and that is okay. I will still share my approach to self-doubt: 1. I only listen to the positive things about myself. 2. I force myselfto speak out loud thepositive things I hear about myself. 3. I keepmy distance fromanyone who has negative ideas about themselves or me. 4. I won’t allow anyone or any place to disrupt the positive things I believe about myself. Is it that serious? Only until I’m thoroughly convinced where I’m going and how I’m getting there. My mind has to be branded by those positive words about myself; it has to be locked in. At that point, people can say what they want and it has no effect other than keeping me sharp. Their sticks and stones don’t break my bones of steel, they sharpen them like a wooden handled whetstone. When I am very sure I am the walking manifestation of the kind of person I see for myself, then I can go anywhere and everywhere, fully convinced nothing can dull my self-image. Who do you see yourself as now? 66 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP Compare yourself now to the person you hopeto be. What is different? Describe the person you are after you'veachieved all your goals in life; when you are old,satisfied, and fulfilled. (text) (text) 67 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG (text) You have to decide to grow through what you go through. I’ve been around life long enough to know that the world is not a huge support system cheering me on and saying “You can do it!” This means I have to create space for myself and build my very existence. I have to be very selective because my life’s vision is now my life. Why should I minimize it because someone else might? They are not the ones who have to feel what I feel and grow through what I go through. So I can’t expect other people to cherish my life or pave the way for me. I’m not saying it’s you against the world, because you will have help and supporters just like I do and have always had. But after they open the door for you, you have to walk through it. If they've been down a similar road and tell you there’s a detour or a better way, you still have to put in the time and effort to take that route. Anyway you look at it, you have to put in the work. Your work pays the toll and validates you. The miles I put on these roads I mapped out validate me. I cared enough about my life to put something in play instead of being on pause. That is yet another toll paid; it is my validation. In the world of vision, there are three modes you can sit in: reverse, 68 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP neutral, or drive. In reverse, you’re obviously going backward, which defeats the purpose of making a roadmap. Although sometimes it’s good to go in reverse, so you can review why you should go forward with your ideas, we will cover that more in the book “Swerve in Your Gift”. When you’re in neutral, the only way to go forward is if someone pushes you. This is not sustainable. A little push here and there is OK, but we need to dig and find what motivates us so we don’t exhaust or misuse the supporters in our lives. Right now we pulled over and are sitting in the park, mapping out where we’re going with our minds set on DRIVE. In other words, we are getting in gear which also serves as validation to believe in yourself and decide your journey. When it comes to thoughts about your vision,who inspires you the most? This could bepeople you look up to, people who motivateyou, people you want to be like, or people youstrive not to be like. Who have you vowed never to be like? (text) 69 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG Not that you can, but if you could fix thatperson or those people, what is the issue andhow would you fix it? Who else could benefit from your solution? (text) (text) 70 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP (text) When it comes to vision, validation is a mindset, and I must remain validated. I’ll tell you, I am horrible with directions! If you tell me where to go, as soon as I start the journey, I will have forgotten. My mind is processing 200 things per minute as a husband, musician, author, brand strategist, martial artist, and content creator. My clients know I appreciate the value of a solid vision because my creativity is ever-flowing, and projects constantly have to get done. I literally cannot afford to wait for someone to tell me I have a good idea or that it will work. It’s a clarity risk waiting for people to be convinced of what I already see very clearly in my heart. If you have the drive already, speed past looking for validation and waiting for approval. If you’re on a job and people can’t connect with your ideas, put in the extra time and hours to jot the ideas down anyway! It may be the building block you need to build a business for yourself! I’ve watched too many of my ideas get intercepted by other great minds on the planet. I’ve come up with many inventions, business 71 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG ideas, and melodies. When I drag my feet getting them done, the next thing you know, someone is online prospering from it or marketing their version of what I failed to take seriously. Vision isn’t made, it is received. Dreams are intentional when they drop off pieces of your life’s vision. Pay attention when you feel that exciting feeling and your heart starts racing or you get chills in your arms and up your back; when you wake up enthusiastic with a feeling from a dream you can’t even recall all the way. That motivation was delivered to you. Even if you think it wasn’t, be wise. Pretend it was a gift and do something with it anyway. Vision knows what it's doing. It usually shows up at the weirdest of times and usually when you can't financially afford to do any of it. This is how you know it's divine. When it takes faith and is bigger than your abilities, this is divine vision. Divine vision is a project God wants to do through you, so it goes beyond what you can ask, think, or fully imagine. It goes with you and grows with you, containing many parts that have to be unpacked through writing. Divine vision isn’t something you chase down. It’s a gift that comes to you, keeping you in line for the duration of your life as you walk by faith. What is the use of an all-powerful God with tons of know-how and resources giving you an idea within your abilities and your realm of knowledge? He would rather give you something that makes you more like Him so you can install His ways on this planet. God will give you vision so you have to grow into it and learn how He 72 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP thinks. You will make the plan in your heart, but God will miraculously connect you to a purpose bigger than you. Usually, our vision is correct, but our character to complete it is incomplete. You are not incorrect, just incomplete. Better said, you are worthy to be customized and put on display. Vision's job is to get us in shape for the drive we have. When you are driven by passion, your vision will give you lifelong free tune-ups. Vision will guide you mile by mile to lead you in acquiring what you need to surpass regular and reach extraordinary. What are my core values and beliefs? What skills and knowledge do I need to achievemy vision? (text) (text) 73 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG What steps do I need to take to start movingtoward my vision? What obstacles might I encounter, and how canI overcome them? Who can support me with guidance on thisjourney? (text) (text) 74 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP (text) 75 (CONTENTS) CONTENTS(CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER TEN SWERVE ON! OOkay, Bestie! We’ve hit a wall, a good stopping point. As a matter of fact, “What did the fish say when it hit the wall?”……..”DAM!” Lol. Ba-dum-tss! C’mon, Bestie. Where’s the effort? Congratulations! If you have been answering the chapter questions, you should now have a generous amount of information to write or copy and paste onto your vision. We’re essentially going to sort out everything you’ve written so far and expand on it, adding a little more depth and clarity. When answering these questions, please don’t bore yourself by being too technical or pressure yourself by worrying about what others might feel. Speak for yourself and no one else, because it’s your time: 16 QUESTIONS FOR WRITING YOUR VISION 1. What do I enjoy doing? Think about the activities that bring you joy and satisfaction. 77 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG 2. What makes me feel fulfilled? What experiences or achievements give me a sense of fulfillment? 3. What do I have that no one gave me? What are my natural abilities and strengths? **Your natural abilities and strengths are often indicators of areas where you can “show up and show out.” 4. What do I want to do that no one has to make me do? What are you passionate about? Identify the activities, causes, or fields that ignite your enthusiasm and passion. 5. What are my core values and beliefs? What values and beliefs guide my decisions and actions? 6. What kind of lifestyle would I need to demonstrate my core beliefs? 7. What don’t I agree with in the world around me? 8. What problems do I want to take action to solve in the world? What people, communities, or businesses do I want to impact, serve, or influence? What areas can I make a difference in? 9. What problems can I use my passion to solve? 78 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP Be creative and let your imagination soar! 10. If I couldn’t talk, how could I show people a better way? 11. What people, events, or ideas inspire me? 12. What do I want to accomplish in my life? What are my dreams and aspirations? What are my deepest desires and ambitions? 13. Who am I going to be? What kind of legacy do I want to leave? How do I want to be remembered? Where am I going? What impact am I going to have on the world? 14. How do I define success? What does success mean to me personally? Think beyond your upbringing, culture, and society. 15. Do I need to invent specific technology to go along with my vision? 16. What technologies are available to help me dive deeper into my core beliefs? What technologies are available to help me be successful in my passion? What technologies can help me “put the word out” about my passion? Think about resources like: Online courses Webinars 79 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG E-learning platforms Self-Reflection Tools - Apps and software designed for journaling, mindfulness, and personal reflection Networking platforms - Online forums, social media groups Content & Media - Books, articles, podcasts, videos Assessment Tools - Personality and values assessments, such as Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) or StrengthsFinder Blogs, podcasts, or video production tools Mentorship & Coaching Platforms Marketing & Outreach Tools - Platforms for branding, digital marketing, and audience engagement Collaboration Tools - Apps and platforms for team communication, project management, and collaboration if your passion involves working with others Funding & Resource Platforms - Crowdfunding sites, grants, and financial management tools I asked these questions in the order that I felt would be most advantageous to your process. Personally, I would copy and paste the relevant notes you’ve been taking so far as the answers to these recent questions and then expand on them if needed. When you write your vision with all of this information, it would be helpful to timeline everything out by creating a vision board. A vision board is a collage of images, pictures, and affirmations of your dreams and desires, designed to serve as a source of inspiration and motivation. In your written vision and/or on your vision board, identify the people, places, and things you need to connect with to accomplish your vision thoroughly. Be knowledgeable about everything you need in case help comes along. Get the prices down to the cent for everything required to fulfill your life vision. Writing your detailed vision/vision board is actually initiating the vision. It’s the first step that starts everything up. You never know where the resources are going to come from or when they're going to show up. Be very clear that this is going to be a faith walk. Favor follows faith. Don’t be surprised if stepping out on faith gets you the provisions for your vision through favor instead of money. Money is not your source; 80 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP it’s a resource. It’s not the head honcho as much as it is a tool that you don’t always need. I don’t know about you, but favor has always been a favored-favorite of mine. It’s not enough to just want things and wish for them—at least not for me. I used to go to the places and experience everything on my vision board. I wanted to touch it, breathe it, hear it, see it up close, and taste it. In that state, you're realizing where you belong, and that amazing feeling is supposed to be continual and normalized. You should always feel like it’s Christmas like you’re ripping open a new package sent to help you achieve your vision. Make sure you test-drive the car you want, do a walkthrough of the living space you desire, and take a tour of the business you plan to be associated with. Please don’t be ridiculous and stalk the person you want to link with—you might never see them again! But you get my drift. This isn’t about getting your hopes up; it’s about connecting to your faith. You can’t jinx destiny. The desires are yours because they align with what you are designed to want, as well as what you are designed to have. Let’s take a look in the rearview mirror to reflect on the progress you've made so far. We are really getting somewhere, Bestie! I’m proud of you for taking the proper steps. The fact that you got through this book means you are serious about where you’re going. Now, let’s discuss how to champion your lane, stay in gear, and swerve around roadblocks. If you didn’t know, I’ll share with you that the biggest enemy of the right direction is a good direction. People will always give you good ideas of where you should go and what you should do. That doesn’t necessarily mean it’s the right idea for the vision you’ve been laying out. The good thing about knowing where you want to go is that at least you know where you don’t want to go. You can make a list of ideas that are suggested to you, and the process of elimination is fairly easy next to your vision board. 81 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG For example, in martial arts, I began studying within the mindset of JKD so I could get straight to the point. JKD gets rid of all the fancy stuff and gets straight to the fight. If I get into a fight, I simply wanna win and go home. So many artists want to punch to look artistic like choreographed movies. Their punches are telegraphed, exaggerated, and very noticeable. Some of the martial artists have never been in an actual fight so they have no point of reference. They only can give you “good ideas” about how to fight. It doesn’t mean those are the “right ideas” for my goal of winning and going home. They may not know the “right idea” for my strength, build, speed, stamina, or physical attributes. Some people are trying to lose weight. There are a lot of good ideas out there that may not be the right ideas for your budget, gender, food allergies, lactose intolerance, medical conditions, or upcoming medical procedures. It would be wise to reassess your goals and know what’s right for you. Now that you have your vision written, you need to know this is your world. You have your world, your crew, and your supporters, even if you haven’t met them yet. This is your world, and everyone else is a guest in it. You need to make sure you are comfortable in your own thing and this world that you’re building for yourself. It doesn’t mean looking down on others; it just means walking with your chin high and your chest out. Walk, knowing that you have a purpose and you’re not just existing to exist. Everything you think of will be great if you just finish the process of vision. You are somebody in this big world of somebodies. I want you to be hanging out with someone you care about and not have to think about adjusting yourself for the ideas you have. Hanging out in the coffee shop with someone you’re comfortable around and saying, “Ooo, there’s a new song idea!” Or, “Ooo, there’s that section in my book, and I got it from our conversation!” Or, “Ooo, these spices at this restaurant give me an idea for a new recipe!” Don’t be surprised when you're in church, and while everyone else is praising or worshiping, you’re sitting down and writing as fast as you can because you’re receiving ideas for your ideas. 82 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP Your life becomes your throne. Everything good and bad comes to serve you with information and shape you for where you’re going. All the help you receive becomes the help you can give. When you are comfortable in your life and not afraid anymore, sometimes people mistake this for arrogance. They just can’t understand how you can be so peaceful through the storms. Some people just don’t understand how you can be happy when there’s nothing they can see to be happy about. But you can see your vision, and it gives you joy that creates happiness. People are going to think that you are overconfident and overzealous. The beauty is that you could care less because you’re too busy doing what you have to do to walk this life loud, proud, and enthusiastic about where you’re going. Don’t let the background noise drown out the sound you’re creating. Let your engine echo! 83 (CONTENTS) CONTENTS(CONTENTS) CONTENTSCHAPTER ELEVEN FOR THE BELIEVERS BBelieve me when I express how I love you all dearly. I want to let you know how proud I am of you for reading this book. The faith walk is not easy, and I know it can be challenging to navigate the spiritual things happening inside your heart, especially when trying to apply them practically. Although it’s the best life when you get the hang of it, being in the world but not of it can be quite disturbing from time to time. I get it. But we have a lot of help because we are supernatural. Vision is crucial when it comes to taking this collage of supernatural dopeness and turning it into a masterpiece that people can digest. I'm writing to you with love and conviction. People, I want to be very clear when I say this: if everything you answered has to do with serving God, you should dig a little bit deeper. Relying solely on abstract spiritual goals can lead you in circles without getting specific about how to make things happen. It’s a bit like saying you want to build a skyscraper in Manhattan but your blueprint reads, “Be still and know that God is God!” God is an expert planner, spending seven whole days preparing the details for our existence. Even He didn’t complete His work by saying, “Let me be still and know that I AM GOD!” If you want to make a significant impact, you need more than just willingness; you need a 85 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG clear, actionable plan. Imagine you’re in eternity and God asks how you served Him, only to hear you say, “By being willing to serve You.” I’ve seen churches and artists who’ve used God as an excuse to avoid facing their pasts, building character, or truly understanding who they are. In a relationship with God, it’s crucial to get in touch with yourself so you’re not so heavenly-minded that you’re of no earthly good. Know your personality, preferences, and experiences. This selfawareness will help you connect with others and make your vision more relatable. Here’s the kicker: you won’t only have Christian supporters, churchgoers, or people associated with your faith. God is love, and He doesn’t discriminate against anyone who wants to help expand His love or passion. He probably sent all kinds of random supporters your way, so make it as easy as ABC for people to understand and support what you’re doing. God likes you, loves you, and shares your purpose through visions, whether people know Him fully or not; whether they’re highly knowledgeable about Him or not. This isn’t an attack on believers, but we need to be real. We often sugarcoat laziness in the kingdom when it comes to strategy and planning. It’s great to be patriotic about the kingdom of heaven, but action speaks louder, and action takes planning. The harvest is ripe, and the workers are few. So, if everything you’ve written sounds like it’s only understood with the help of the Holy Spirit, go back and create a version that’s relatable to people outside your comfort zone. The worst that can happen is you’ll be understood by two different communities that can support your vision. Good Idea vs. God Idea Everyone’s job is to make the world better than they found it. This includes paving the way to make it easier for someone to follow your chosen path. Take full advantage of what technology offers. Stay updated with current trends. Technology and science are God-given gifts that can spark breakthroughs in your vision. They help you see how to get things done when detailing your vision/vision board. I’ve worked for ministries as a brand specialist, and I can’t tell you how many fail due to a lack of clear vision and outdated approaches. 86 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSTHE ROADMAP I’ve heard the “good idea versus God idea” line so many times. A “God idea” is something that lands in your heart and you can’t shake it. It keeps reminding you of how awesome it would be if you pursued it! It answers questions like: 1 Who am I going to be? 2 Why am I here? 3 What do I have that no one gave me? 4 What can I do that no one has to make me want to do? 5 What change do I want to make in the world? 6 Where am I going? If you're a believer, I'm sure you've heard the "good idea versus God idea" statement before. For your vision, I don't want you to judge your ideas as right or wrong, good or bad, or good or God. The goal is to get them out of your head and onto paper. If you judge them prematurely, you’re interrupting your process. Until you write the vision for a thing, you don't know enough about it to determine its value. God can give you something that doesn’t make sense right away because you haven’t spent enough time with the idea yet. Sometimes, ministries are out of touch because they dedicate their lives to studying the Word and helping others. This means they might miss out on current trends and practical advice. Be careful not to dismiss the help of those who are in touch with modern trends just because you think your God idea is the end-all-be-all. It’s usually the beginning of Him telling you to collaborate with your team so your plan can succeed with wise counsel. Please don’t be the ministry that looks messy, sounds messy, has a lot of disorder within the ministry, and doesn’t listen to any good ideas, but suddenly has an inclination to hear a glorious God idea amidst the commotion. I’m not picking on anyone. This is a widespread issue that needs addressing for ministries to thrive. Make sure you check in with technology and see what’s available, especially if you’re a minister who goes against the grain. There are so many shortcuts now compared to the old steps we had to take. With just an iPhone and some headphones, you can create professional music catalogs, videos, social media content, podcasts, and more. If you 87 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSZION SWRV BIRDSONG find someone savvy about AI, crypto, the metaverse, and all the tech jargon, listen to their ideas. Have a broad understanding of what they offer. Don’t ignore technology in the realm of vision; the more you know, the better. In my experience as a music producer, many gospel artists with “God ideas” needed “good ideas” to guide their projects. You have to sell yourself in any business, so I knew what I was in for when I saw outdated styles and music. If your vision feels outdated, it might be time to adapt. The world moves quickly, and sometimes you need to upgrade your tools and methods. As a musician, I know what it’s like to start a song, then life happens, and five years later, the world has moved on to the next trend. Your vision might be brilliant, but if you miss the bus, it might now be an Uber or Lyft. You may need to lose your flip phone and get an iPhone or Android to access the right apps. That CD cover you saw in your vision may now be a thumbnail you can create with Canva. Don’t let outdated methods hold you back. Embrace the tools and trends that can help you move forward. Please don’t be the person who has a God idea and ridicules the good ideas that could help you express it to the world. Believers were once reluctant toward the printing press, radio, television, computers, the internet, smartphones, and even social media! Ironically, these are now the tools most churches use to spread their message. If we had a solid vision, we wouldn’t just accept new tech; we’d be leading advances in technology. What if we used these tools to build, connect, and improve our world in positive ways? I was blessed to see how rejecting good ideas led to failure, and I learned valuable lessons from it. It’s a blessing when you see your right decisions play out. I’ve learned to make sure people value me and that my vision aligns with my core values. When people experience you or your business, they’re experiencing your core values. When it comes to vision, use good ideas to express your God idea effectively. Love, Swrv Birdsong 88 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSBIBLIOGRAPHY 􀀛􀁰􀁂􀀱 􀀿􀁀􀁁􀀰􀀵􀀱􀀰 􀀖􀀾􀀋 􀀟􀁅􀀸􀀱􀀿 􀀟􀁁􀀺􀀾􀀻􀀱 􀀹􀀻􀀿􀁀 􀀻􀀲 􀀹􀁅 􀀸􀀵􀀲􀀱􀀉 􀀭􀀺􀀰 􀁀􀀴􀀻􀁁􀀳􀀴 􀀴􀀱􀁰􀀿 􀀺􀀻􀁀 􀀴􀀱􀀾􀀱 􀁀􀀻 􀀾􀀱􀀯􀀱􀀵􀁂􀀱 􀀹􀁅 􀀿􀀵􀀺􀀯􀀱􀀾􀀱 􀀭􀀼􀀼􀀾􀀱􀀯􀀵􀀭􀁀􀀵􀀻􀀺 􀀲􀀻􀀾 􀀿􀀴􀀭􀀾􀀵􀀺􀀳 􀀴􀀵􀀿 􀀸􀀵􀀲􀀱 􀁃􀀵􀁀􀀴 􀁁􀀿􀀉 􀀴􀀵􀀿 􀀵􀀺􀁂􀀭􀀸􀁁􀀭􀀮􀀸􀀱 􀁃􀀻􀀾􀀷 􀀸􀀵􀁂􀀱􀀿 􀀻􀀺􀀋􀀖􀀾􀀋 􀀟􀁁􀀺􀀾􀀻􀀱 􀁃􀀭􀀿 􀀭 􀁀􀀾􀀭􀀺􀀿􀀲􀀻􀀾􀀹􀀭􀁀􀀵􀁂􀀱 􀀹􀀭􀀺 􀀻􀀲 􀀙􀀻􀀰 􀁃􀀴􀀻 􀀵􀀺􀀿􀀼􀀵􀀾􀀱􀀰 􀀯􀀻􀁁􀀺􀁀􀀸􀀱􀀿􀀿 􀀵􀀺􀀰􀀵􀁂􀀵􀀰􀁁􀀭􀀸􀀿 􀀭􀀯􀀾􀀻􀀿􀀿 􀁀􀀴􀀱 􀀳􀀸􀀻􀀮􀀱􀀋 􀀚􀀵􀀿 􀁀􀀱􀀭􀀯􀀴􀀵􀀺􀀳􀀿 􀀾􀀱􀀭􀀯􀀴􀀱􀀰 􀁃􀀻􀀾􀀸􀀰 􀀸􀀱􀀭􀀰􀀱􀀾􀀿􀀉 􀀱􀀺􀁀􀀾􀀱􀀼􀀾􀀱􀀺􀀱􀁁􀀾􀀿􀀉 􀀭􀀺􀀰 􀁅􀀻􀁁􀁀􀀴􀀉 􀀱􀀺􀀯􀀻􀁁􀀾􀀭􀀳􀀵􀀺􀀳 􀁀􀀴􀀱􀀹 􀁀􀀻 􀀰􀀵􀀿􀀯􀀻􀁂􀀱􀀾 􀁀􀀴􀀱􀀵􀀾 􀀼􀁁􀀾􀀼􀀻􀀿􀀱 􀀭􀀺􀀰 􀀹􀀭􀁄􀀵􀀹􀀵􀁆􀀱 􀁀􀀴􀀱􀀵􀀾 􀀼􀀻􀁀􀀱􀀺􀁀􀀵􀀭􀀸􀀋 􀀦􀀴􀀾􀀻􀁁􀀳􀀴 􀀴􀀵􀀿 􀀹􀀱􀀿􀀿􀀭􀀳􀀱􀀿 􀀻􀀺 􀀸􀀱􀀭􀀰􀀱􀀾􀀿􀀴􀀵􀀼􀀉 􀀼􀀱􀀾􀀿􀀻􀀺􀀭􀀸 􀀳􀀾􀀻􀁃􀁀􀀴􀀉 􀀭􀀺􀀰 􀀿􀀼􀀵􀀾􀀵􀁀􀁁􀀭􀀸 􀀰􀀱􀁂􀀱􀀸􀀻􀀼􀀹􀀱􀀺􀁀􀀉 􀀴􀀱 􀀼􀀾􀀻􀀲􀀻􀁁􀀺􀀰􀀸􀁅 􀀵􀀹􀀼􀀭􀀯􀁀􀀱􀀰 􀀼􀀱􀀻􀀼􀀸􀀱 􀀲􀀾􀀻􀀹 􀀰􀀵􀁂􀀱􀀾􀀿􀀱 􀀮􀀭􀀯􀀷􀀳􀀾􀀻􀁁􀀺􀀰􀀿􀀉 􀀱􀀹􀀼􀀻􀁃􀀱􀀾􀀵􀀺􀀳 􀁀􀀴􀀱􀀹 􀁀􀀻 􀀸􀀱􀀭􀀰 􀀸􀀵􀁂􀀱􀀿 􀀻􀀲 􀀼􀁁􀀾􀀼􀀻􀀿􀀱 􀀭􀀺􀀰 􀁂􀀵􀀿􀀵􀀻􀀺􀀋 􀀟􀁁􀀺􀀾􀀻􀀱􀀄􀀿 􀀸􀀱􀀳􀀭􀀯􀁅 􀀯􀀻􀀺􀁀􀀵􀀺􀁁􀀱􀀿 􀁀􀀻 􀀵􀀺􀀿􀀼􀀵􀀾􀀱 􀁀􀀴􀀻􀀿􀀱 􀀿􀀱􀀱􀀷􀀵􀀺􀀳 􀁀􀀻 􀀸􀀵􀁂􀀱 􀀹􀀱􀀭􀀺􀀵􀀺􀀳􀀲􀁁􀀸􀀸􀁅 􀀭􀀺􀀰 􀀹􀀭􀀷􀀱 􀀭 􀀼􀀻􀀿􀀵􀁀􀀵􀁂􀀱 􀀰􀀵􀀲􀀲􀀱􀀾􀀱􀀺􀀯􀀱 􀀵􀀺 􀁀􀀴􀀱 􀁃􀀻􀀾􀀸􀀰􀀋 􀀛􀁰􀁂􀀱 􀀮􀀱􀀱􀀺 􀀰􀀵􀀳􀀳􀀵􀀺􀀳 􀁀􀀴􀀾􀀻􀁁􀀳􀀴 􀁀􀀴􀀱􀀿􀀱 􀀮􀀻􀀻􀀷􀀿 􀀲􀀻􀀾 􀀿􀀻􀀹􀀱 􀁅􀀱􀀭􀀾􀀿 􀀺􀀻􀁃 􀀭􀀺􀀰 􀀴􀀱􀁰􀀿 􀀿􀁀􀀵􀀸􀀸 􀁀􀀭􀀷􀀵􀀺􀀳 􀀹􀀱 􀁀􀀻 􀀿􀀯􀀴􀀻􀀻􀀸􀀏 􀀦􀀴􀀱􀀾􀀱􀁰􀀿 􀀺􀀻 􀁃􀀭􀁅 􀀛 􀀯􀀻􀁁􀀸􀀰 􀀿􀀼􀀱􀀭􀀷 􀀻􀀺 􀁂􀀵􀀿􀀵􀀻􀀺 􀁃􀀵􀁀􀀴􀀻􀁁􀁀 􀀿􀀼􀀱􀀭􀀷􀀵􀀺􀀳 􀀻􀀺 􀀖􀀾􀀋 􀀟􀁁􀀺􀀾􀀻􀀱􀀋 􀀕􀀴􀀱􀀯􀀷 􀀻􀁁􀁀 􀁀􀀴􀀱􀀿􀀱 􀀿􀀱􀀸􀀱􀀯􀁀􀀵􀀻􀀺􀀿 􀀟􀁁􀀺􀀾􀀻􀀱􀀉 􀀟􀁅􀀸􀀱􀀿􀀋 􀀦􀀴􀀱 􀀢􀀾􀀵􀀺􀀯􀀵􀀼􀀸􀀱􀀿 􀀭􀀺􀀰 􀀢􀀻􀁃􀀱􀀾 􀀻􀀲 􀀨􀀵􀀿􀀵􀀻􀀺􀀋 􀀖􀀱􀀿􀁀􀀵􀀺􀁅 􀀛􀀹􀀭􀀳􀀱 􀀢􀁁􀀮􀀸􀀵􀀿􀀴􀀱􀀾􀀿􀀉 􀁖􀁔􀁔􀁚􀀋􀀟􀁁􀀺􀀾􀀻􀀱􀀉 􀀟􀁅􀀸􀀱􀀿􀀋 􀀛􀀺 􀀢􀁁􀀾􀀿􀁁􀀵􀁀 􀀻􀀲 􀀢􀁁􀀾􀀼􀀻􀀿􀀱􀀋 􀀖􀀱􀀿􀁀􀀵􀀺􀁅 􀀛􀀹􀀭􀀳􀀱 􀀢􀁁􀀮􀀸􀀵􀀿􀀴􀀱􀀾􀀿􀀉 􀁖􀁔􀁔􀁖􀀋􀀟􀁁􀀺􀀾􀀻􀀱􀀉 􀀟􀁅􀀸􀀱􀀿􀀋 􀀧􀀺􀀰􀀱􀀾􀀿􀁀􀀭􀀺􀀰􀀵􀀺􀀳 􀀫􀀻􀁁􀀾 􀀢􀀻􀁀􀀱􀀺􀁀􀀵􀀭􀀸􀀋 􀀖􀀱􀀿􀁀􀀵􀀺􀁅 􀀛􀀹􀀭􀀳􀀱 􀀢􀁁􀀮􀀸􀀵􀀿􀀴􀀱􀀾􀀿􀀉 􀁖􀁔􀁔X Bible Passages 1 Proverbs 16:3 ◦ Text: "Commit your work to the Lord, and your plans will be established." (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Hebrew means to roll or (garah), which $ָ " ע word for "commit" is : The Hebrew Explanation ◦ entrust. This verse suggests that entrusting one’s efforts to God ensures that one's plans are aligned with divine will and will come to fruition. 2 Proverbs 19:21 ◦ Text: "Many are the plans in a person’s heart, but it is the Lord’s purpose that prevails." (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Hebrew מִזְמ& ר (mizmor), which indicates multiple : The Hebrew term for "plans" is Explanation ◦ thoughts or intentions. This verse underscores that while humans may devise many plans, it is ultimately God's sovereign purpose that will prevail. 3 Jeremiah 29:11 ◦ Text: "For I know the plans I have for you,” declares the Lord, “plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you a hope and a future." (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Hebrew מַחֲשָב& ת (machashavot), implying is"plans"forword Hebrew The:Explanation ◦ thoughtful and intentional designs. This verse emphasizes that God’s plans are benevolent and oriented towards giving hope and a positive future. 4 Habakkuk 2:2 ◦ Text: "Then the Lord replied: 'Write down the revelation and make it plain on tablets so that a herald may run with it.'" (NIV) 89 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSBIBLIOGRAPHY ◦ Original Language: Hebrew ת" ב /ָ (katav lecha et hachazon) trans- לְ ת אֵ הַחָז" ן : The Hebrew phrase Explanation ◦ lates to "write the vision." This highlights the importance of clarity and communication in delivering God’s message so it can be effectively acted upon. 5 Proverbs 3:5-6 ◦ Text: "Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding; in all your ways submit to him, and he will make your paths straight." (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Hebrew 1 ח (batach) means to trust or confide. This passage ◦ Explanation: The Hebrew word טַָ advises complete trust in God rather than reliance on personal wisdom, assuring that God will provide clear and direct guidance. 6 Acts 2:17-18 ◦ Text: "‘In the last days, God says, I will pour out my Spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, your old men will dream dreams. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my Spirit in those days, and they will prophesy.'" (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Greek ◦ Explanation: The Greek terms προφητεύσουσιν (propheteusousin) for "prophesy," ὀνειροπολοῦνται(oneiropolountai) for "dream dreams," and ὁράματα (horamata) for "visions" reflect a broad, inclusive vision of God’s communication through various forms. This passage from Acts, quoting Joel 2:28-32, highlights the divine promise of broad prophetic and visionary experiences available to all people in the last days. 7 James 4:13-15 ◦ Text: "Now listen, you who say, ‘Today or tomorrow we will go to this or that city, spend a year there, carry on business and make money.’ Why, you do not even know what will happen tomorrow. What is your life? You are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, ‘If it is the Lord’s will, we will live and do this or that.’" (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Greek ◦ Explanation: The Greek term θέλημα (thelema) refers to God’s will. This passage underscores the uncertainty of human plans and the necessity of aligning them with God’s will, acknowledging human limitations and the sovereignty of God. 8 Psalm 37:23 ◦ Text: "The Lord makes firm the steps of the one who delights in him;" (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Hebrew נֵ ן "/ (konen) means to establish or make firm. This word : The Hebrew Explanation ◦ verse reflects that those who take joy in following God will have their paths made secure by Him. 9 Isaiah 30:21 ◦ Text: "Whether you turn to the right or to the left, your ears will hear a voice behind you, saying, 'This is the way; walk in it.'" (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Hebrew ה (zeh haderech) translates to "this is the way." 7ֶ 5 הַ זֶ : The Hebrew phrase Explanation◦ 90 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSBIBLIOGRAPHY It indicates that God provides clear and specific guidance in the decisions we make, ensuring we stay on the right path. 10 Luke 14:28 ◦ Text: "Suppose one of you wants to build a tower. Won’t you first sit down and estimate the cost to see if you have enough money to complete it?" (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Greek ◦ Explanation: The Greek term ἰκονόμος (oikonomos) means to plan or manage. This verse teaches the importance of careful planning and foresight before undertaking significant projects. 11 Ephesians 2:10 ◦ Text: "For we are God’s handiwork, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do." (NIV) ◦ Original Language: Greek ◦ Explanation: The Greek word ποίημα (poiema) means “workmanship” or “creation.” This verse highlights that believers are created by God with a purpose, and He has preordained specific good works for them to accomplish. 91 (CONTENTS) CONTENTSDo you agree with the Pep Talk? Why or why not? Have you ever had a childhood dream? What was it? Is there anything I mentioned that is stirring up controversy in your mind right now? If so, jot it down. (text) (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSHow has that changed your life? Jot it down Bestie. There's no judgment here. What kind of person are you? (text) (text) What kind of person do you want to be? (text) Have you had any life-changing events recently? (text) Have you ever gone through anything that has shaped your outlook on life? (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSHow do you see life now? List some people, places, and things you think about connecting with from time (text) to time. Don't be shy... People: (text) Places: (text) Things: (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSWrite some challenges you might face. Places Things (text) (text) People (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSWhat are my true passions and interests? What can I do? (text) (text) What do I have that no one gave me? (text) What skills and knowledge do I have? (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSWhat impact do I want to make on the world? How can I make the world better than how I found it? (text) (text) What problem(s) can you solve? (text) What solutions can you make better? (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSWould you start a movement or a business providing your solutions? Let’s hear it! Are you familiar with negative feelings from romantic relationships? (text) (text) (text) Non-romantic relationships (family, friends, or business)? (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSHey Bestie, before you start dating, let’s review your life goal. What does success look like to you? (text) (text) (text) Have you ever thought about marriage? (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSNow that you have an understanding of vision, how does that affect yourviews of marriage? How does vision fit into your idea of marriage? (text) (text) (text) (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSHow does marriage fit into your vision? Write some fears you face when you think about vision. (text) (text) (text) Interrogate the fear. Did it come from you? Did it come from something you’ve seen? Did it come from something you heard? Or did it come from something you experienced? (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSFear is never present to encourage you, so if you had to guess, what would be the goal of this particular fear? I dare you to say that list of positive words to yourself. I dare you to say it like (text) you mean it!Try it a few times. If your faith could make you a giant and shrink fears, what faith-based words would you speak? (text) If you have no fears, doubts, or worries, only peace, boldness, and power...how would you think about the road ahead? (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSWho do you see yourself as now? Compare yourself now to the person you hope to be. What is different? (text) (text) Describe the person you are after you've achieved all your goals in life; when you are old, satisfied, and fulfilled. (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSWhen it comes to thoughts about your vision, who inspires you the most? This could be people you look up to, people who motivate you, people you want to be like, or people you strive not to be like. Who have you vowed never to be like? (text) (text) Not that you can, but if you could fix that person or those people, what is the issue and how would you fix it? (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSWho else could benefit from your solution? What are my core values and beliefs? (text) (text) What skills and knowledge do I need to achieve my vision? (text) What steps do I need to take to start moving toward my vision? (text) (CONTENTS) CONTENTSWhat obstacles might I encounter, and how can I overcome them? Who can support me with guidance on this journey? (text) (text) 